=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

YAML::Manual::Modules - Comparison of the YAML Perl modules

=head1 INTRODUCTION

For a seemingly simple serialization language, there are a lot of Perl
modules around to do things with YAML. This manual goes through all of
the modules and explains them at a very high level view. The modules can
be categorized into 3 main groups: B<Implementation Modules>, B<Support
Modules> and B<Bonus Modules>.

=head1 IMPLEMENTATION MODULES

These are the modules that one usually thinks of, when listing YAML
modules. They include modules like L<YAML::XS>.

=head2 L<YAML.pm>

YAML.pm was the first Perl YAML implementation module. It pioneered the
ubiquitous YAML Dump/Load API.

In 2009, the old YAML.pm code was retired as the module YAML::Old. For
more information on the code, see the L<YAML::Old> section below.

The new purpose of YAML.pm is to be the interface module that sits in
front of the various implementations and provides a nice, clean and
consistent API.

You can either use a specific implementation directly or use any
implementation module that is on the system via YAML.pm, depending on
your situation.

=head2 L<YAML::XS>

YAML::XS is a Perl/XS binding to Kirill Siminov's C<libyaml>, which is
one of the most solid pieces of software I have had the pleasure of
working with. YAML::XS is distributed on CPAN under the package name
YAML-LibYAML. This may seem confusing, but YAML::XS is a better module
name, and YAML-LibYAML gives credit to the working end of the code. It's
a decent compromise.

=head1 SUPPORT MODULES

These are the modules that encapulate that make up all the parts of an
implementation suite. They include modules like C<YAML::Loader> and
C<YAML::Node>. Not all of the support modules are detailed here. There
are too many. Just the ones you might actually encounter in your
everyday programming are covered.

=head1 BONUS MODULES

These are YAML related modules that are not directly related to Perl
serialization. They include modules like L<YAML::Shell>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ingy döt Net <ingy@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008. Ingy döt Net.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

=cut
